Yuan Longping is a pioneer and leader in the field of hybrid rice research. He is committed to the research, application and promotion of hybrid rice technology, and invented the "three-line method" indica hybrid rice. He successfully developed the "two-line method" hybrid rice and created a super Hybrid rice technical system. It also proposed and implemented the “Three-Production and Four-Five Production Project”, using the technical achievements of super hybrid rice, publishing 6 monographs and publishing more than 60 papers. On April 14, 2018, Yuan Longping published his views on genetic modification in an interview. For genetically modified soybeans, Yuan Longping pointed out that as long as it is through the safe detection of genetically modified crops, there is no problem. Yuan Longping said that genetic modification is the future direction of agriculture.

He designed super-high-yield plant type patterns characterized by high canopy, short panicle and medium-large spikes and the technical route for breeding super hybrid rice, and made continuous progress in super hybrid rice research. In 1997, Yuan Longping conducted research on super hybrid rice. In 2000, 2004 and 2012, the first, second and third phases of the 700-mu, 800-kilogram and 900-kilogram demonstrations of the super rice in China were realized. In 2013, he launched a goal of the fourth phase of a super-hybrid rice plant with a yield of 1,000 kilograms per mu, and plans to achieve the goal by 2020. At the same time, the high-yield hybrid rice “species three production four” high-yield project will be implemented to promote the production and application of scientific and technological achievements. Since 2007, it has achieved tremendous growth and income-increasing effects. It has been implemented in seven provinces and cities nationwide. Among them, the counties (cities, districts) participating in the province of Hunan Province increased from 20 to 50 in 2012, with an area of 8.82 million mu. As of 2012, the cumulative demonstration area has increased by more than 20 million mu, increasing production by more than 2 billion kilograms, making new contributions to the continuous and steady increase in grain production.

Yuan is now working on his brand new project, a new approach to water filtration.However, he realizes by the time he finsihes his project, all the water be gone.

Thankfully, he discovered a wonderful substitute to water: milk.

With the discovery of milk he decided to gather as many cows as he possibly could.

He later started to produce icecreams.
